Exploratory data analysis

1. Comments on separation of species

Petal length and petal width:
Setosa shows a clear separation from Versicolor and Virginica with smaller values 
for both petal length and petal width. Versicolor and Virginica show some overlap, 
but there is obvious visible clustering. Virginica generally has larger petal lengths 
and widths then Versicolor. 

Sepal length and sepal width:
Theses data points show more overlap, especially with Versicolor and Virginica, making 
them less effective for species separation. Though Setosa still shows clear separation,
with more higher sepal widths and lower sepal lengths compared to the other two 
species.  

Sepal length and petal length:
Setosa shows a clear separation from both Versicolor and Virginica, specifically with 
its characteristic of shorter petals. Versicolor and Virginica have more overlap, but
Virginica tends to have higher petal lengths compared to Versicolor. 

Sepal width and petal width:
Setosa shows a clear separation with smaller petal widths and higher sepal widths
compared to Versicolor and Virginica. Versicolor and Virginica show overlapping, though
Virginica tends to have larger petal widths. 

Findings: 
Setosa is easily separable from Versicolor and Virginica in all scatt plots due to its
smaller petal dimensions and larger sepal widths. Versicolor and Virginica overlap in 
moss plots, but observable differences in petal dimensions provide the best separation
between the two species. Petal dimensions are the best for distinguishing species. 


Box Plots
    Comments on using these features to separate species of the Iris flowers 

Sepal Length Box plots:
The Sepal lengths are mostly distinct with the longest belonging to the Virginica flowers. 
The overall variance however for each sample is rather high with a sepal length of 5.6 being 
possible for all flowers. The best use would be to distinguish Sentosa and Virginica flowers 
as they have little overlap with almost fully distinct distributions.

Sepal Width Box Plots:
Out of all four features, the Sepal width has the most overlap for all the distributions. The Virginica 
and Veriscolor flowers in particular being almost identical. The Setosa does differ from the over two with 
the majority of the distribution being above the other two. Overall Sepal width is not a good identifier on
its own without data to compare it to0.

Petal Length Box Plots:
The petal lengths have a noticeably low variance compared to the rest of the data. The Setosa flower 
has the lowest variance and is noticeably more precise than the already precise lengths of the other flowers.
Versicolor does have an outlier but is not far from the minimum value. versicolor and Virginica still overlap
which makes telling them apart more difficult.

Petal Width Box Plots:
The distributions are quite similar to the petal length data with the variance being slightly higher. Setosa does 
have two outliers but are adjacent to the maximum and do not overlap other data. Versicolor and Virginica still
overlap a noticeable amount but the 1st and 2nd quarters are distinct with Virginica having the longest length.

Conclusion:
Overall Versicolor and Virginica have similar measurements which makes telling them apart difficult but the petal length
and with are distinct enough that they can be separated with some overlap. Setosa Was constantly separated in the
petal measurements making identification straight forward. The sepal plots however were not useful in distinguishing the 
flowers since there was so much overlap between the three flowers. 
